NYCDSA app questions

Tell us why you are interested in the program and why you think you are qualified.
    A graduate of the University of Chicago with a Bachelor's in psychology, I went on to work in a cognitive neuroscience lab doing statistical analyses on the experimental data we collected. I built upon my experimental design and stats background in the lab before moving to work for a tech startup, Earlybird Software. I began doing part project management and part data science before proving that I should be moved into a full-time data science role. My managers made that decision because I proved that I have not just a strong work ethic in the office, but also a thirst to learn and improve my skills outside of it.

    Not only had I supplemented skills I'd acquired in school with online data science courses, I also spent a significant amount of time learning new data science techniques by putting them into practice on real data.

    I originally proved my value in the data science space at work by coalescing and analyzing some of our internal metrics. Earlybird is a software services company that builds web and mobile apps for various clients. We go about tracking resource production in a manner typical of  agile software companies: on a project management tool. Traditionally, our project managers had exported CSVs of "points" done for each project and calculated billing metrics in Excel. I revamped our system by plugging into the Trello API and writing a series of scripts to pull in data from our relative "boards," join it on our hours tracking data, and automate the exports of the resulting output.

    Since I've transitioned to full-time data science, my job has primarily consisted of analyzing data from the core apps that the prod team builds and presenting the resulting RMarkdown reports to our clients. That involves both testing clients' hypotheses about their data as well as exploratory analyses that I and my team think may be fertile areas of investigation. Other times, my role is at the very beginning of a project when clients' messy data needs transforming, deduping, and general cleaning of before it can be transferred from, e.g., a pile of spreadsheets into a database.

    As someone who works full-time in the data science space, I have a good idea of where my blind spots are and how I would apply the knowledge I can gain from a program like NYCDSA in a work setting.


If accepted, what do you hope to achieve from the program?

    I'm primarily interested in completing this program because I'm interested in improving my Python programming skills as well as gaining a more theoretical understanding of the math behind of the data science techniques I already use. I'd like to improve my computer science chops and deepen my understanding of how to improve runtime and optimize the programs I write at scale. I'd also of course like to end the program with a full-time data science role that will challenge me at a company in NYC.

    I'm the type to see things to completion, especially in a field that's of interest to me. After working in the analytics space for a few years I'm convinced it's what I want to spend the rest of my career doing. To that end, I want to educate myself as much as possible at the beginning of my career in order to see the highest dividends in my productivity over the course of the rest of it.


Explain your Data Analytical experience

My experience has been almost entirely in R, though I have completed the DataCamp Beginner and Intermediate Python for Data Science tracks and translated a short menu-building program from R into Python. In R, I prefer to stick to tidy data principles and use tidyverse packages when possible. I have some basic experience with tidy evaluation (i.e. quosures), though in general most of the functions I write do not use tidyeval.

I have experience building linear and logistic regression models, including mixed effects models. The only unsupervised learning technique I've used in practice is k-means. I've built random forest models for both classification and regression tasks and a small neueral net with the nnet package. I've done some basic bag-of-words NLP on text data, calculating metrics like TF-IDF and pairwise correlations between n-grams. I also have some experience with web scraping and SQL. I use git regularly, though generally not in a collaborative manner; I'm usually the sole user of my repository.

When it comes to visualization, I'm comfortable in ggplot2. I've built network graphs and constructed functions for programmatically generating graphs. I have some basic experience using plotly for interactive visualizations. I've also built a few small Shiny apps (e.g. https://amandadobbyn.shinyapps.io/clusterfun/), though this is an area in which I'd like to improve.

The full writeup for the project that I build that Shiny app for, which I named Beer-in-Hand Data Science, can be found at https://github.com/aedobbyn/beer-data-science/blob/master/compile/compile.md and the slides for the presentation at https://aedobbyn.github.io/beer-data-science/#/. I'm fortunate that the project gained some traction on Twitter and was recently reblogged on Data Skeptic. In large part because of the visibility it gave me, I received a scholarship to attend rstudio::conf 2018 as well as a membership in the NASA Datanauts 2018 class.

My most recent side project is a menu building and solving project. The unfinished writeup can be found https://github.com/aedobbyn/menu-builder/blob/master/compile/writeup.md. I use USDA data to build up random menus and "solve" them with a linear programming solver in order to change their portion sizes such that they are compliant with USDA guidelines on a variety of nutritional constraints. The project also involves some simulations, web scraping of Allrecipes.com, and a little bit of NLP using the tidytext package.

I've built a package which I call dobtools, https://github.com/aedobbyn/dobtools, which is a collection of functions I've used in various projects. It is not meant to be an airtight and assiduously-maintained package for the public; mainly it saves me copying and pasting mistakes.

Thanks for your time and I hope to be joining you all in New York this fall!
